Document cost and budget visibility for non-billing users (#7273)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/cloud-organization/billing/manage-billing-notifications.md

To help you understand costs and manage spending on {{ecloud}}, you can create budgets that track resource usage and send email notifications when month-to-date usage reaches specified thresholds. Budgets can be scoped to specific {{ecloud}} resources or to your entire organization.

Who can create, view, and manage a budget depends on its scope:

* **Organization** budgets, which track your entire {{ecloud}} organization, can be created, viewed, and managed only by users with the **Organization owner** or **Billing admin** role.

> * **Cloud resource** budgets track specific resources, which can include {{ech}} deployments, {{serverless-short}} projects, and connected clusters. To view one, you need view access to every resource in its scope. To create, edit, or delete one, you need manage access to every resource in its scope.

Author: Addressed in c60ba33d.

Replaced the undefined terms "view access" and "manage access" with verb phrases ("need to be able to view/manage every resource in its scope") and added a link to the user roles reference for readers who want to look up which role applies.

Specific role names are intentionally not listed here: connected cluster access roles have only Admin and Viewer (no Editor), so enumerating Admin/Editor/Viewer would be inaccurate for that resource type. The user-roles.md page itself describes the billing actions in terms of level of access rather than mapping roles to operations — this paragraph follows the same approach.

The Recipients section further down still names Admin/Editor/Viewer because it describes the UI controls for selecting notification recipients, which is a distinct concept from the create/view/manage permissions covered here.

> 

Author: Addressed in 702b6bbe: rephrased this bullet to separate the requirements for viewing (view access to every resource in scope) from those for creating, editing, or deleting (manage access to every resource in scope), and clarified that a Cloud resource budget's scope can include connected clusters. Removed the "Admin or Editor" examples, since connected cluster access roles have Admin and Viewer only (no Editor).

> * **Cloud resource** budgets track specific resources, which can include {{ech}} deployments, {{serverless-short}} projects, and connected clusters. To view one, you need to be able to view every resource in its scope. To create, edit, or delete one, you need to be able to manage every resource in its scope. Which [role](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cloud-organization/user-roles.md) you need differs by resource type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Cloud resource** budgets track specific resources, which can include {{ech}} deployments, {{serverless-short}} projects, and connected clusters. To view a budget, you need to be able to view every resource in its scope. To create, edit, or delete a budget, you need to be able to manage every resource in its scope. The specific [role](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cloud-organization/user-roles.md) you need to view or manage a resource differs by resource type.
```
